<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<p class="ph1">CHAPTER FIVE</p>
			<p>A huge silver monoplane glided gracefully to the surface of Mines Field in Los Angeles and came to a pretty stop after a short run. A liveried footman stepped out of the forward compartment armed with a stool which he placed under the rear door. Simultaneously a high-powered foreign car swept up close to the airplane and waited. The rear door of the airplane opened, and to the apparent surprise of the nearby mechanics a tall, black, distinguished-looking Negro stepped out and down to the ground, assisted by the hand of the footman. Behind him came a pale young man and woman, evidently secretaries. The three entered the limousine which rapidly drove off.</p>
			<p>“Who’s that coon?” asked one of the mechanics, round-eyed and respectful, like all Americans, in the presence of great wealth.</p>
			<p>“Don’t you know who that is?” inquired another, pityingly. “Why that’s that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman. You know, the fellow what’s turnin’ niggers white. See that B N M on the side of his plane? That stands for Black-No-More. Gee, but I wish I had just half the jack he’s made in the last six months!”</p>
			<p>“Why I thought from readin’ th’ papers,” protested the first speaker, “that th’ law had closed up his places and put ’im outta business.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, that’s a lotta hockey,” said the other fellow. “Why just yesterday th’ newspapers said that Black-No-More was openin’ a place on Central Avenue. They already got one in Oakland, so a coon told me yesterday.”</p>
			<p>“ ’Sfunny,” ventured a third mechanic, as they wheeled the big plane into a nearby hangar, “how he don’t have nuthin’ but white folks around him. He must not like nigger help. His chauffeur’s white, his footman’s white an’ that young gal and feller what was with him are white.”</p>
			<p>“How do you know?” challenged the first speaker. “They may be darkies that he’s turned into white folks.”</p>
			<p>“That’s right,” the other replied. “It’s gittin’ so yuh can’t tell who’s who. I think that there Knights of Nordica ought to do something about it. I joined up with ’em two months ago but they ain’t done nuthin’ but sell me an ole uniform an’ hold a coupla meetin’s.”</p>
			<p>They lapsed into silence. Sandol, the erstwhile Senegalese, stepped from the cockpit grinning. “Ah, zese Americains,” he muttered to himself as he went over the engine, examining everything minutely.</p>
			<p>“Where’d yuh come from, buddy?” asked one of the mechanics.</p>
			<p>“Den-vair,” Sandol replied.</p>
			<p>“Whatcha doin’, makin’ a trip around th’ country?” queried another.</p>
			<p>“Yes, we air, what you callem, on ze tour inspectione,” the aviator continued. They could think of no more to say and soon strolled off.</p>
			<hr class="tb"/>
			<p>Around an oval table on the seventh floor of a building on Central Avenue, sat <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Junius Crookman, Hank Johnson, Chuck Foster, Ranford the Doctor’s secretary and four other men. At the lower end of the table Miss Bennett, Ranford’s stenographer, was taking notes. A soft-treading waiter whose Negro nature was only revealed by his mocking obsequiousness, served each with champagne.</p>
			<p>“To our continued success!” cried the physician, lifting his glass high.</p>
			<p>“To our continued success!” echoed the others.</p>
			<p>They drained their glasses, and returned them to the polished surface of the table.</p>
			<p>“Dog bite it, Doc!” blurted Johnson. “Us sho is doin’ fine. Ain’t had a bad break since we stahted, an’ heah ’tis th’ fust o’ September.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t holler too soon,” cautioned Foster. “The opposition is growing keener every day. I had to pay seventy-five thousand dollars more for this building than it’s worth.”</p>
			<p>“Well, yuh got it, didn’t yuh?” asked Johnson. “Just like Ah allus say: when yuh got money yuh kin git anything in this man’s country. Whenever things look tight jes pull out th’ ole check book an’ eve’ything’s all right.”</p>
			<p>“Optimist!” grunted Foster.</p>
			<p>“I ain’t no pess’mist,” Johnson accused.</p>
			<p>“Now gentlemen,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman interrupted, clearing his throat, “let’s get down to business. We have met here, as you know, not only for the purpose of celebrating the opening of this, our fiftieth sanitarium, but also to take stock of our situation. I have before me here a detailed report of our business affairs for the entire period of seven months and a half that we’ve been in operation.</p>
			<p>“During that time we have put into service fifty sanitariums from Coast to Coast, or an average of one every four and one-half days, the average capacity of each sanitarium being one hundred and five patients. Each place has a staff of six physicians and twenty-four nurses, a janitor, four orderlies, two electricians, bookkeeper, cashier, stenographer and record clerk, not counting four guards.</p>
			<p>“For the past four months we have had an equipment factory in Pittsburgh in full operation and a chemical plant in Philadelphia. In addition to this we have purchased four airplanes and a radio broadcasting station. Our expenditures for real estate, salaries and chemicals have totaled six million, two hundred and fifty-five thousand, eighty-five dollars and ten cents.”</p>
			<p>“He! He!” chuckled Johnson. “Dat ten cents mus’ be fo’ one o’ them bad ceegars that Fostah smokes.”</p>
			<p>“Our total income,” continued <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman, frowning slightly at the interruption, “has been eighteen million, five hundred thousand, three hundred dollars, or three hundred and seventy thousand and six patients at fifty dollars apiece. I think that vindicates my contention at the beginning that the fee should be but fifty dollars⁠—within the reach of the rank and file of Negroes.” He laid aside his report and added:</p>
			<p>“In the next four months we’ll double our output and by the end of the year we should cut the fee to twenty-five dollars,” he lightly twirled his waxed mustache between his long sensitive fingers and smiled with satisfaction.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Foster, “the sooner we get this business over with the better. We’re going to run into a whole lot more opposition from now on than we have so far encountered.”</p>
			<p>“Why man!” growled Johnson, “we ain’t even stahted on dese darkies yet. And when we git thu wi’ dese heah, we kin work on them in th’ West Indies. Believe me, Ah doan <i>nevah</i> want dis graft tuh end.”</p>
			<p>“Now,” continued <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman, “I want to say that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Foster deserves great praise for the industry and ingenuity he has shown in purchasing our real estate and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Johnson deserves equally great praise for the efficient manner in which he has kept down the opposition of the various city officials. As you know, he has spent nearly a million dollars in such endeavors and almost as much again in molding legislative sentiment in Washington and the various state capitals. That accounts for the fact that every bill introduced in a legislature or municipal council to put us out of business has died in committee. Moreover, through his corps of secret operatives, who are mostly young women, he has placed numbers of officials and legislators in a position where they cannot openly oppose our efforts.”</p>
			<p>A smile of appreciation went around the circle.</p>
			<p>“We’ll have a whole lot to do from now on,” commented Foster.</p>
			<p>“Yeh, Big Boy,” replied the ex-gambler, “an’ whut it takes tuh do it Ah ain’t got nuthin’ else but!”</p>
			<p>“Certainly,” said the physician, “our friend Hank has not been overburdened with scruples.”</p>
			<p>“Ah doan know whut dat is, Chief,” grinned Johnson, “but Ah knows whut a check book’ll do. Even these crackers tone down when Ah talks bucks.”</p>
			<p>“This afternoon,” continued Crookman, “we also have with us our three regional directors, Doctors Henry Dogan, Charles Hinckle and Fred Selden, as well as our chief chemist, Wallace Butts. I thought it would be a good idea to bring you all together for this occasion so we could get better acquainted. We’ll just have a word from each of them. They’re all good Race men, you know, even if they have, like the rest of our staff, taken the treatment.”</p>
			<p>For the next three-quarters of an hour the three directors and the chief chemist reported on the progress of their work. At intervals the waiter brought in cold drinks, cigars and cigarettes. Overhead whirred the electric fans. Out of the wide open windows could be seen the panorama of bungalows, pavements, palm trees, trundling street cars and scooting automobiles.</p>
			<p>“Lawd! Lawd! Lawd!” Johnson exclaimed at the conclusion of the meeting, going to the window and gazing out over the city. “Jes gimme a coupla yeahs o’ dis graft an’ Ah’ll make Henry Foahd look like a tramp.”</p>
			<hr class="tb"/>
			<p>Meanwhile, Negro society was in turmoil and chaos. The colored folk in straining every nerve to get the Black-No-More treatment, had forgotten all loyalties, affiliations and responsibilities. No longer did they flock to the churches on Sundays or pay dues in their numerous fraternal organizations. They had stopped giving anything to the Anti-Lynching campaign. Santop Licorice, head of the once-flourishing Back-To-Africa Society, was daily raising his stentorian voice in denunciation of the race for deserting his organization.</p>
			<p>Negro business was being no less hard hit. Few people were bothering about getting their hair straightened or skin whitened temporarily when for a couple of weeks’ pay they could get both jobs done permanently. The immediate result of this change of mind on the part of the Negro public was to almost bankrupt the firms that made the whitening and straightening chemicals. They were largely controlled by canny Hebrews, but at least a half-dozen were owned by Negroes. The rapid decline in this business greatly decreased the revenue of the Negro weekly newspapers who depended upon such advertising for their sustenance. The actual business of hair straightening that had furnished employment to thousands of colored women who would otherwise have had to go back to washing and ironing, declined to such an extent that “To Rent” signs hung in front of nine-tenths of the shops.</p>
			<p>The Negro politicians in the various Black Belts, grown fat and sleek “protecting” vice with the aid of Negro votes which they were able to control by virtue of housing segregation, lectured in vain about black solidarity, race pride and political emancipation; but nothing stopped the exodus to the white race. Gloomily the politicians sat in their offices, wondering whether to throw up the sponge and hunt the nearest Black-No-More sanitarium or hold on a little longer in the hope that the whites might put a stop to the activities of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman and his associates. The latter, indeed, was their only hope because the bulk of Negroes, saving their dimes and dollars for chromatic emancipation, had stopped gambling, patronizing houses of prostitution or staging Saturday-night brawls. Thus the usual sources of graft vanished. The black politicians appealed to their white masters for succor, of course, but they found to their dismay that most of the latter had been safely bribed by the astute Hank Johnson.</p>
			<p>Gone was the almost European atmosphere of every Negro ghetto: the music, laughter, gaiety, jesting and abandon. Instead, one noted the same excited bustle, wild looks and strained faces to be seen in a war time soldier camp, around a new oil district or before a gold rush. The happy-go-lucky Negro of song and story was gone forever and in his stead was a nervous, money-grubbing black, stuffing away coin in socks, impatiently awaiting a sufficient sum to pay <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman’s fee.</p>
			<p>Up from the South they came in increasing droves, besieging the Black-No-More sanitariums for treatment. There were none of these havens in the South because of the hostility of the bulk of white people but there were many all along the border between the two sections, at such places as Washington, D. C., Baltimore, Cincinnati, Louisville, Evansville, Cairo, <abbr>St.</abbr> Louis and Denver. The various Southern communities attempted to stem this, the greatest migration of Negroes in the history of the country, but without avail. By train, boat, wagon, bicycle, automobile and foot they trekked to the promised land; a hopeful procession, filtering through the outposts of police and Knights of Nordica volunteer bands. Where there was great opposition to the Negroes’ going, there would suddenly appear large quantities of free bootleg liquor and crisp new currency which would make the most vigilant white opponent of Black-No-More turn his head the other way. Hank Johnson seemed to be able to cope with almost every situation.</p>
			<hr class="tb"/>
			<p>The national office of the militant Negro organization, the National Social Equality League, was agog. Telephone bells were ringing, mulatto clerks were hustling excitedly back and forth, messenger boys rushed in and out. Located in the Times Square district of Manhattan, it had for forty years carried on the fight for full social equality for the Negro citizens and the immediate abolition of lynching as a national sport. While this organization had to depend to a large extent upon the charity of white folk for its existence, since the blacks had always been more or less skeptical about the program for liberty and freedom, the efforts of the society were not entirely unprofitable. Vistas of immaculate offices spread in every direction from the elevator and footfalls were muffled in thick imitation-Persian rugs. While the large staff of officials was eager to end all oppression and persecution of the Negro, they were never so happy and excited as when a Negro was barred from a theater or fried to a crisp. Then they would leap for telephones, grab telegraph pads and yell for stenographers; smiling through their simulated indignation at the spectacle of another reason for their continued existence and appeals for funds.</p>
			<p>Ever since the first sanitarium of Black-No-More, Incorporated, started turning Negroes into Caucasians, the National Social Equality League’s income had been decreasing. No dues had been collected in months and subscriptions to the national mouthpiece, <i>The Dilemma</i>, had dwindled to almost nothing. Officials, long since ensconced in palatial apartments, began to grow panic-stricken as pay days got farther apart. They began to envision the time when they would no longer be able for the sake of the Negro race to suffer the hardships of lunching on canvasback duck at the Urban Club surrounded by the white dilettante, endure the perils of first-class Transatlantic passage to stage Save-Dear-Africa Conferences or undergo the excruciating torture of rolling back and forth across the United States in drawing-rooms to hear each other lecture on the Negro problem. On meager salaries of five thousand dollars a year they had fought strenuously and tirelessly to obtain for the Negroes the constitutional rights which only a few thousand rich white folk possessed. And now they saw the work of a lifetime being rapidly destroyed.</p>
			<p>Single-handed they felt incapable of organizing an effective opposition to Black-No-More, Incorporated, so they had called a conference of all of the outstanding Negro leaders of the country to assemble at the League’s headquarters on December 1, 1933. Getting the Negro leaders together for any purpose except boasting of each other’s accomplishments had previously been impossible. As a usual thing they fought each other with a vigor only surpassed by that of their pleas for racial solidarity and unity of action. This situation, however, was unprecedented, so almost all of the representative gentlemen of color to whom invitations had been sent agreed with alacrity to come. To a man they felt that it was time to bury the hatchet before they became too hungry to do any digging.</p>
			<p>In a very private inner office of the N. S. E. L. suite, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Shakespeare Agamemnon Beard, founder of the League and a graduate of Harvard, Yale and Copenhagen (whose haughty bearing never failed to impress both Caucasians and Negroes) sat before a glass-topped desk, rubbing now his curly gray head, and now his full spade beard. For a mere six thousand dollars a year, the learned doctor wrote scholarly and biting editorials in <i>The Dilemma</i> denouncing the Caucasians whom he secretly admired and lauding the greatness of the Negroes whom he alternately pitied and despised. In limpid prose he told of the sufferings and privations of the downtrodden black workers with whose lives he was totally and thankfully unfamiliar. Like most Negro leaders, he deified the black woman but abstained from employing aught save octoroons. He talked at white banquets about “we of the black race” and admitted in books that he was part-French, part-Russian, part-Indian and part-Negro. He bitterly denounced the Nordics for debauching Negro women while taking care to hire comely yellow stenographers with weak resistance. In a real way, he loved his people. In time of peace he was a Pink Socialist but when the clouds of war gathered he bivouacked at the feet of Mars.</p>
			<p>Before the champion of the darker races lay a neatly typed resolution drawn up by him and his staff the day before and addressed to the Attorney General of the United States. The staff had taken this precaution because no member of it believed that the other Negro leaders possessed sufficient education to word the document effectively and grammatically. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Beard re-read the resolution and then placing it in the drawer of the desk, pressed one of a row of buttons. “Tell them to come in,” he directed. The mulattress turned and switched out of the room, followed by the appraising and approving eye of the aged scholar. He heaved a regretful sigh as the door closed and his thoughts dwelt on the vigor of his youth.</p>
			<p>In three or four minutes the door opened again and several well-dressed blacks, mulattoes and white men entered the large office and took seats around the wall. They greeted each other and the President of the League with usual cordiality but for the first time in their lives they were sincere about it. If anyone could save the day it was Beard. They all admitted that, as did the Doctor himself. They pulled out fat cigars, long slender cigarettes and London briar pipes, lit them and awaited the opening of the conference.</p>
			<p>The venerable lover of his race tapped with his knuckle for order, laid aside his six-inch cigarette and rising, said:</p>
			<p>“It were quite unseemly for me who lives such a cloistered life and am spared the bane or benefit of many intimate contacts with those of our struggling race who by sheer courage, tenacity and merit have lifted their heads above the mired mass, to deign to take from a more capable individual the unpleasant task of reviewing the combination of unfortunate circumstances that has brought us together, man to man, within the four walls of the office.” He shot a foxy glance around the assembly and then went on suavely. “And so, my friends, I beg your august permission to confer upon my able and cultured secretary and confidant, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Napoleon Wellington Jackson, the office of chairman of this temporary body. I need not introduce <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jackson to you. You know of his scholarship, his high sense of duty and his deep love of the suffering black race. You have doubtless had the pleasure of singing some of the many sorrow songs he has written and popularized in the past twenty years, and you must know of his fame as a translator of Latin poets and his authoritative work on the Greek language.</p>
			<p>“Before I gratefully yield the floor to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jackson, however, I want to tell you that our destiny lies in the stars. Ethiopia’s fate is in the balance. The Goddess of the Nile weeps bitter tears at the feet of the Great Sphinx. The lowering clouds gather over the Congo and the lightning flashes o’er Togoland. To your tents, O Israel! The hour is at hand.”</p>
			<p>The president of the N. S. E. L. sat down and the erudite <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jackson, his tall, lanky secretary got up. There was no fear of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jackson ever winning a beauty contest. He was a sooty black, very broad shouldered, with long, ape-like arms, a diminutive egg-shaped head that sat on his collar like a hen’s egg on a demitasse cup and eyes that protruded so far from his head that they seemed about to fall out. He wore pince-nez that were continually slipping from his very flat and oily nose. His chief business in the organization was to write long and indignant letters to public officials and legislators whenever a Negro was mistreated, demanding justice, fair play and other legal guarantees vouchsafed no whites except bloated plutocrats fallen miraculously afoul of the law, and to speak to audiences of sex-starved matrons who yearned to help the Negro stand erect. During his leisure time, which was naturally considerable, he wrote long and learned articles, bristling with references, for the more intellectual magazines, in which he sought to prove conclusively that the plantation shouts of Southern Negro peons were superior to any of Beethoven’s symphonies and that the city of Benin was the original site of the Garden of Eden.</p>
			<p>“Hhmm! Hu-umn! Now er⁠—ah, gentlemen,” began <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jackson, rocking back on his heels, taking off his eye glasses and beginning to polish them with a silk kerchief, “as you know, the Negro race is face to face with a grave crisis. I⁠—ah⁠—presume it is er⁠—ah unnecessary for me to go into any details concerning the-ah activities of Black-No-More, Incorporated. Suffice er⁠—ah umph! ummmmh! to say-ah that it has thrown our society into rather a-ah bally turmoil. Our people are forgetting shamelessly their-ah duty to the-ah organizations that have fought valiantly for them these-ah many years and are now busily engaged chasing a bally-ah will-o-the wisp. Ahem!</p>
			<p>“You-ah probably all fully realize that-ah a continuation of the aforementioned activities will prove disastrous to our-ah organizations. You-ah, like us, must feel-uh that something drastic must be done to preserve the integrity of Negro society. Think, gentlemen, what the future will mean to-uh all those who-uh have toiled so hard for Negro society. What-ah, may I ask, will we do when there are no longer any-ah groups to support us? Of course, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman and-ah his associates have a-uh perfect right to-ah engage in any legitimate business, but-ah their present activities cannot-ah be classed under that head, considering the effect on our endeavors. Before we go any further, however, I-ah would like to introduce our research expert <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Williams, who will-ah describe the situation in the South.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Walter Williams, a tall, heavy-set white man with pale blue eyes, wavy auburn hair and a militant, lantern jaw, rose and bowed to the assemblage and proceeded to paint a heartrending picture of the loss of pride and race solidarity among Negroes North and South. There was, he said, not a single local of the N. S. E. L. functioning, dues had dwindled to nothing, he had not been able to hold a meeting anywhere, while many of the stanchest supporters had gone over into the white race.</p>
			<p>“Personally,” he concluded, “I am very proud to be a Negro and always have been (his great-grandfather, it seemed, had been a mulatto), and I’m willing to sacrifice for the uplift of my race. I cannot understand what has come over our people that they have so quickly forgotten the ancient glories of Ethiopia, Songhay and Dahomey, and their marvelous record of achievement since emancipation.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Williams was known to be a Negro among his friends and acquaintances, but no one else would have suspected it.</p>
			<p>Another white man of remote Negro ancestry, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Herbert Gronne of Dunbar University, followed the research expert with a long discourse in which he expressed fear for the future of his institution whose student body had been reduced to sixty-five persons and deplored the catastrophe “that has befallen us black people.”</p>
			<p>They all listened with respect to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Gronne. He had been in turn a college professor, a social worker and a minister, had received the approval of the white folks and was thus doubly acceptable to the Negroes. Much of his popularity was due to the fact that he very cleverly knew how to make statements that sounded radical to Negroes but sufficiently conservative to satisfy the white trustees of his school. In addition he possessed the asset of looking perpetually earnest and sincere.</p>
			<p>Following him came Colonel Mortimer Roberts, principal of the Dusky River Agricultural Institute, Supreme General of the Knights and Daughters of Kingdom Come and president of the Uncle Tom Memorial Association. Colonel Roberts was the acknowledged leader of the conservative Negroes (most of whom had nothing to conserve) who felt at all times that the white folks were in the lead and that Negroes should be careful to guide themselves accordingly.</p>
			<p>He was a great mountain of blackness with a head shaped like an upturned bucket, pierced by two pig-like eyes and a cavernous mouth equipped with large tombstone teeth which he almost continually displayed. His speech was a cross between the woofing of a bloodhound and the explosion of an inner tube. It conveyed to most white people an impression of rugged simplicity and sincerity, which was very fortunate since Colonel Roberts maintained his school through their contributions. He spoke as usual about the cordial relations existing between the two races in his native Georgia, the effrontery of Negroes who dared whiten themselves and thus disturb the minds of white people and insinuated alliance with certain militant organizations in the South to stop this whitening business before it went too far. Having spoken his mind and received scant applause, the Colonel (some white man had once called him Colonel and the title stuck) puffing and blowing, sat down.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Claude Spelling, a scared-looking little brown man with big ears, who held the exalted office of president of the Society of Negro Merchants, added his volume of blues to the discussion. The refrain was that Negro business⁠—always anemic⁠—was about to pass out entirely through lack of patronage. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Spelling had for many years been the leading advocate of the strange doctrine that an underpaid Negro worker should go out of his way to patronize a little dingy Negro store instead of going to a cheaper and cleaner chain store, all for the dubious satisfaction of helping Negro merchants grow wealthy.</p>
			<p>The next speaker, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Joseph Bonds, a little rat-faced Negro with protruding teeth stained by countless plugs of chewing tobacco and wearing horn-rimmed spectacles, who headed the Negro Data League, almost cried (which would have been terrible to observe) when he told of the difficulty his workers had encountered in their efforts to persuade retired white capitalists, whose guilty consciences persuaded them to indulge in philanthropy, to give their customary donations to the work. The philanthropists seemed to think, said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Bonds, that since the Negroes were busily solving their difficulties, there was no need for social work among them or any collection of data. He almost sobbed aloud when he described how his collections had fallen from $50,000 a month to less than $1000.</p>
			<p>His feeling in the matter could easily be appreciated. He was engaged in a most vital and necessary work: <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">i.e.</abbr>, collecting bales of data to prove satisfactorily to all that more money was needed to collect more data. Most of the data were highly informative, revealing the amazing fact that poor people went to jail oftener than rich ones; that most of the people were not getting enough money for their work; that strangely enough there was some connection between poverty, disease and crime. By establishing these facts with mathematical certitude and illustrating them with elaborate graphs, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Bonds garnered many fat checks. For his people, he said, he wanted work, not charity; but for himself he was always glad to get the charity with as little work as possible. For many years he had succeeded in doing so without any ascertainable benefit accruing to the Negro group.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Bonds’ show of emotion almost brought the others to tears and many of them muttered “Yes, Brother” while he was talking. The conferees were getting stirred up but it took the next speaker to really get them excited.</p>
			<p>When he rose an expectant hush fell over the assemblage. They all knew and respected the Right Reverend Bishop Ezekiel Whooper of the Ethiopian True Faith Wash Foot Methodist Church for three reasons: <abbr>viz.</abbr>, his church was rich (though the parishioners were poor), he had a very loud voice and the white people praised him. He was sixty, corpulent and an expert at the art of making cuckolds.</p>
			<p>“Our loyal and devoted clergy,” he boomed, “are being forced into manual labor and the Negro church is rapidly dying.” And then he launched into a violent tirade against Black-No-More and favored any means to put the corporation out of business. In his excitement he blew saliva, waved his long arms, stamped his feet, pummeled the desk, rolled his eyes, knocked down his chair, almost sat on the rug and generally reverted to the antics of Negro bush preachers.</p>
			<p>This exhibition proved contagious. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Herbert Gronne, face flushed and shouting amens, marched from one end of the room to the other; Colonel Roberts, looking like an inebriated black-faced comedian, rocked back and forth clapping his hands; the others began to groan and moan. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Napoleon Wellington Jackson, sensing his opportunity, began to sing a spiritual in his rich soprano voice. The others immediately joined him. The very air seemed charged with emotion.</p>
			<p>Bishop Whooper was about to start up again, when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Beard, who had sat cold and disdainful through this outbreak of revivalism, toying with his gold-rimmed fountain pen and gazing at the exhibition through half-closed eyelids, interrupted in sharp metallic tones.</p>
			<p>“Let’s get down to earth now,” he commanded. “We’ve had enough of this nonsense. We have a resolution here addressed to the Attorney General of the United States demanding that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman and his associates be arrested and their activities stopped at once for the good of both races. All those in favor of this resolution say aye. Contrary?⁠ ⁠… Very well, the ayes have it.⁠ ⁠… Miss Hilton please send off this telegram at once!”</p>
			<p>They looked at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Beard and each other in amazement. Several started to meekly protest.</p>
			<p>“You gentlemen are all twenty-one, aren’t you?” sneered Beard. “Well, then be men enough to stand by your decision.”</p>
			<p>“But Doctor Beard,” objected <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Gronne, “isn’t this a rather unusual procedure?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Gronne,” the great man replied, “it’s not near as unusual as Black-No-More. I have probably ruffled your dignity but that’s nothing to what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman will do.”</p>
			<p>“I guess you’re right, Beard,” the college president agreed.</p>
			<p>“I know it,” snapped the other.</p>
			<p>The Honorable Walter Brybe, who had won his exalted position as Attorney General of the United States because of his long and faithful service helping large corporations to circumvent the federal laws, sat at his desk in Washington, D. C. Before him lay the wired resolution from the conference of Negro leaders. He pursed his lips and reached for his private telephone.</p>
			<p>“Gorman?” he inquired softly into the receiver. “Is that you?”</p>
			<p>“Nossuh,” came the reply, “this heah is Mistah Gay’s valet.”</p>
			<p>“Well, call Mister Gay to the telephone at once.”</p>
			<p>“Yassuh.”</p>
			<p>“That you, Gorman,” asked the chief legal officer of the nation addressing the National Chairman of his party.</p>
			<p>“Yeh, what’s up?”</p>
			<p>“You heard ’bout this resolution from them niggers in New York, aint you? It’s been in all of the papers.”</p>
			<p>“Yes I read it.”</p>
			<p>“Well, whaddya think we oughtta do about it?”</p>
			<p>“Take it easy, Walter. Give ’em the old run around. You know. They ain’t got a thin dime; it’s this other crowd that’s holding the heavy jack. And ’course you know we gotta clean up our deficit. Just lemme work with that Black-No-More crowd. I can talk business with that Johnson fellow.”</p>
			<p>“All right, Gorman, I think you’re right, but you don’t want to forget that there’s a whole lot of white sentiment against them coons.”</p>
			<p>“Needn’t worry ’bout that,” scoffed Gorman. “There’s no money behind it much and besides it’s in states we can’t carry anyhow. Go ahead; stall them New York niggers off. You’re a lawyer, you can always find a reason.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks for the compliment, Gorman,” said the Attorney General, hanging up the receiver.</p>
			<p>He pressed a button on his desk and a young girl, armed with pencil and pad, came in.</p>
			<p>“Take this letter,” he ordered: “To Doctor Shakespeare Agamemnon Beard (what a hell of a name!), Chairman of the Committee for the Preservation of Negro Racial Integrity, 1400 Broadway, New York City.</p>
			<div class="blockquot">
				<p>“My dear <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Beard:</p>
				<p>The Attorney General has received the resolution signed by yourself and others and given it careful consideration.</p>
				<p>Regardless of personal views in the matter (I don’t give a damn whether they turn white or not, myself) it is not possible for the Department of Justice to interfere with a legitimate business enterprise so long as its methods are within the law. The corporation in question has violated no federal statute and hence there is not the slightest ground for interfering with its activities.</p>
				<p class="ph2">Very truly yours,<br/>
				<span class="smcap">Walter Brybe</span>.</p>
			</div>
			<p>“Get that off at once. Give out copies to the press. That’s all.”</p>
			<hr class="tb"/>
			<p>Santop Licorice, founder and leader of the Back-to-Africa Society, read the reply of the Attorney General to the Negro leaders with much malicious satisfaction. He laid aside his morning paper, pulled a fat cigar from a box near by, lit it and blew clouds of smoke above his woolly head. He was always delighted when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Beard met with any sort of rebuff or embarrassment. He was doubly pleased in this instance because he had been overlooked in the sending out of invitations to Negro leaders to join the Committee for the Preservation of Negro Racial Integrity. It was outrageous, after all the talking he had done in favor of Negro racial integrity.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Licorice for some fifteen years had been very profitably advocating the emigration of all the American Negroes to Africa. He had not, of course, gone there himself and had not the slightest intention of going so far from the fleshpots, but he told the other Negroes to go. Naturally the first step in their going was to join his society by paying five dollars a year for membership, ten dollars for a gold, green and purple robe and silver-colored helmet that together cost two dollars and a half, contributing five dollars to the Santop Licorice Defense Fund (there was a perpetual defense fund because Licorice was perpetually in the courts for fraud of some kind), and buying shares at five dollars each in the Royal Black Steamship Company, for obviously one could not get to Africa without a ship and Negroes ought to travel on Negro-owned and operated ships. The ships were Santop’s especial pride. True, they had never been to Africa, had never had but one cargo and that, being gin, was half consumed by the unpaid and thirsty crew before the vessel was saved by the Coast Guard, but they had cost more than anything else the Back-To-Africa Society had purchased even though they were worthless except as scrap iron. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Licorice, who was known by his followers as Provisional President of Africa, Admiral of the African Navy, Field Marshal of the African Army and Knight Commander of the Nile, had a genius for being stuck with junk by crafty salesmen. White men only needed to tell him that he was shrewder than white men and he would immediately reach for a check book.</p>
			<p>But there was little reaching for check books in his office nowadays. He had been as hard hit as the other Negroes. Why should anybody in the Negro race want to go back to Africa at a cost of five hundred dollars for passage when they could stay in America and get white for fifty dollars? <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Licorice saw the point but instead of scuttling back to Demerara from whence he had come to save his race from oppression, he had hung on in the hope that the activities of Black-No-More, Incorporated, would be stopped. In the meantime, he had continued to attempt to save the Negroes by vigorously attacking all of the other Negro organizations and at the same time preaching racial solidarity and coöperation in his weekly newspaper, “<i>The African Abroad</i>,” which was printed by white folks and had until a year ago been full of skin-whitening and hair-straightening advertisements.</p>
			<p>“How is our treasury?” he yelled back through the dingy suite of offices to his bookkeeper, a pretty mulatto.</p>
			<p>“What treasury?” she asked in mock surprise.</p>
			<p>“Why, I thought we had seventy-five dollars,” he blurted.</p>
			<p>“We did, but the Sheriff got most of it yesterday or we wouldn’t be in here today.”</p>
			<p>“Huumn! Well, that’s bad. And tomorrow’s pay day, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Why bring that up?” she sneered. “I’d forgotten all about it.”</p>
			<p>“Haven’t we got enough for me to get to Atlanta?” Licorice inquired, anxiously.</p>
			<p>“There is if you’re gonna hitch-hike.”</p>
			<p>“Well, of course, I couldn’t do that,” he smiled deprecatingly.</p>
			<p>“I should say not,” she retorted surveying his 250-pound, five-feet-six-inches of black blubber.</p>
			<p>“Call Western Union,” he commanded.</p>
			<p>“What with?”</p>
			<p>“Over the telephone, of course, Miss Hall,” he explained.</p>
			<p>“If you can get anything over that telephone you’re a better man than I am, Gunga Din.”</p>
			<p>“Has the service been discontinued, young lady?”</p>
			<p>“Try and get a number,” she chirped. He gazed ruefully at the telephone.</p>
			<p>“Is there anything we can sell?” asked the bewildered Licorice.</p>
			<p>“Yeah, if you can get the Sheriff to take off his attachments.”</p>
			<p>“That’s right, I had forgotten.”</p>
			<p>“You would.”</p>
			<p>“Please be more respectful, Miss Hall,” he snapped. “Somebody might overhear you and tell my wife.”</p>
			<p>“Which one?” she mocked.</p>
			<p>“Shut up,” he blurted, touched in a tender spot, “and try to figure out some way for us to get hold of some money.”</p>
			<p>“You must think I’m Einstein,” she said, coming up and perching herself on the edge of his desk.</p>
			<p>“Well, if we don’t get some operating expenses I won’t be able to obtain money to pay your salary,” he warned.</p>
			<p>“The old songs are the best songs,” she wisecracked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, come now, Violet,” he remonstrated, pawing her buttock, “let’s be serious.”</p>
			<p>“After all these years!” she declared, switching away.</p>
			<p>In desperation, he eased his bulk out of the creaking swivel chair, reached for his hat and overcoat and shuffled out of the office. He walked to the curb to hail a taxicab but reconsidered when he recalled that a worn half-dollar was the extent of his funds. Sighing heavily, he trudged the two blocks to the telegraph office and sent a long day letter to Henry Givens, Imperial Grand Wizard of the Knights of Nordica⁠—collect.</p>
			<p>“Well, have you figured it out?” asked Violet when he barged into his office again.</p>
			<p>“Yes, I just sent a wire to Givens,” he replied.</p>
			<p>“But he’s a nigger-hater, isn’t he?” was her surprised comment.</p>
			<p>“You want your salary, don’t you?” he inquired archly.</p>
			<p>“I have for the past month.”</p>
			<p>“Well, then, don’t ask foolish questions,” he snapped.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
