<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2>
			<p>Toward eleven o’clock on the evening before election day, a long, low roadster swept up to the door of a stately country home near Richmond, Va., crunched to a stop, the lights were extinguished and two men, one tall and angular, the other huge and stout, catapulted from the car. Without wasting words, they raced around the house and down a small driveway to a rambling shed in a level field about three hundred yards to the rear. Breathless, they halted before the door and beat upon it excitedly.</p>
			<p>“Open up there, Frazier!” ordered Snobbcraft, for it was he. “Open that door.” There was no answer. The only reply was the chirping of crickets and the rustle of branches.</p>
			<p>“He must not be here,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Buggerie, glancing fearfully over his shoulder and wiping a perspiring brow with a damp handkerchief.</p>
			<p>“The damned rascal had better be here,” thundered the Democratic candidate for Vice-President, beating again on the door. “I telephoned him two hours ago to be ready.”</p>
			<p>As he spoke someone unlocked the door and rolled it aside an inch or two.</p>
			<p>“Is that you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Snobbcraft?” asked a sleepy voice from the darkness within.</p>
			<p>“Open that damned door, you fool,” barked Snobbcraft. “Didn’t I tell you to have that plane ready when we got here? Why don’t you do as you’re told?” He and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Buggerie helped slide the great doors back. The man Frazier snapped on the lights, revealing within a big, three-motored plane with an automobile nestling under each of its wings.</p>
			<p>“I-I kinda fell asleep waitin’ for you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Snobbcraft,” Frazier apologized, “but everything’s ready.”</p>
			<p>“All right, man,” shouted the president of the Anglo-Saxon Association, “let’s get away from here then. This is a matter of life and death. You ought to have had the plane outside and all warmed up to go.”</p>
			<p>“Yes sir,” the man mumbled meekly, busying himself.</p>
			<p>“These damned, stupid, poor white trash!” growled Snobbcraft, glaring balefully at the departing aviator.</p>
			<p>“D-D-Don’t antagonize him,” muttered Buggerie. “He’s our only chance to get away.”</p>
			<p>“Shut up, fool! If it hadn’t been for you and your damned fool statistics we wouldn’t be in this fix.”</p>
			<p>“You wanted them, didn’t you?” whined the statistician in defense.</p>
			<p>“Well, I didn’t tell you to leave that damned summary where anybody could get hold of it.” Snobbcraft replied, reproachfully. “That was the most stupid thing I ever heard of.”</p>
			<p>Buggerie opened his mouth to reply but said nothing. He just glared at Snobbcraft who glared back at him. The two men presented a disheveled appearance. The Vice-Presidential candidate was haggard, hatless, collarless and still wore his smoking jacket. The eminent statistician and author of <i>The Incidence of Psittacosis among the Hiphopa Indians of the Amazon Valley and Its Relation to Life Insurance Rates in the United States</i>, looked far from dignified with no necktie, canvas breeches, no socks and wearing a shooting jacket he had snatched from a closet on his way out of the house. He had forgotten his thick spectacles and his bulging eyes were red and watery. They paced impatiently back and forth, glancing first at the swiftly working Frazier and then down the long driveway toward the glowing city.</p>
			<p>Ten minutes they waited while Frazier went over the plane to see that all was well. Then they helped him roll the huge metal bird out of the hangar and on to the field. Gratefully they climbed inside and fell exhausted on the soft-cushioned seats.</p>
			<p>“Well, that sure is a relief,” gasped the ponderous Buggerie, mopping his brow.</p>
			<p>“Wait until we get in the air,” growled Snobbcraft. “Anything’s liable to happen after that mob tonight. I was never so humiliated in my life. The idea of that gang of poor white trash crowding up my steps and yelling nigger. It was disgraceful.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, it was terrible,” agreed Buggerie. “It’s a good thing they didn’t go in the rear where your car was. We wouldn’t have been able to get away.”</p>
			<p>“I thought there would be a demonstration,” said Snobbcraft, some of his old sureness returning, “that’s why I ’phoned Frazier to get ready.⁠ ⁠… Oh, it’s a damned shame to be run out of your own home in this way!”</p>
			<p>He glared balefully at the statistician who averted his gaze.</p>
			<p>“All ready, sir,” announced Frazier, “where are we headed?”</p>
			<p>“To my ranch in Chihuahua, and hurry up,” snapped Snobbcraft.</p>
			<p>“But⁠—But we ain’t got enough gas to go that far,” said Frazier. “I-I-You didn’t say you wanted to go to Mexico, Boss.”</p>
			<p>Snobbcraft stared incredulously at the man. His rage was so great that he could not speak for a moment or two. Then he launched into a stream of curses that would have delighted a pirate captain, while the unfortunate aviator gaped indecisively.</p>
			<p>In the midst of this diatribe, the sound of automobile horns and klaxons rent the air, punctuated by shouts and pistol shots. The three men in the plane saw coming down the road from the city a bobbing stream of headlights. Already the cavalcade was almost to the gate of the Snobbcraft country estate.</p>
			<p>“Come on, get out of here,” gasped Snobbcraft. “We’ll get some gas farther down the line. Hurry up!”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Buggerie, speechless and purple with fear, pushed the aviator out of the plane. The fellow gave the propeller a whirl, jumped back into the cabin, took the controls and the great machine rolled out across the field.</p>
			<p>They had started none too soon. The automobile cavalcade was already coming up the driveway. The drone of the motor drowned out the sound of the approaching mob but the two fearful men saw several flashes that betokened pistol shots. Several of the automobiles took out across the field in the wake of the plane. They seemed to gain on it. Snobbcraft and Buggerie gazed nervously ahead. They were almost at the end of the field and the plane had not yet taken to the air. The pursuing automobiles drew closer. There were several more flashes from firearms. A bullet tore through the side of the cabin. Simultaneously Snobbcraft and Buggerie fell to the floor.</p>
			<p>At last the ship rose, cleared the trees at the end of the field and began to attain altitude. The two men took deep breaths of relief, rose and flung themselves on the richly upholstered seats.</p>
			<p>A terrible stench suddenly became noticeable to the two passengers and the aviator. The latter looked inquiringly over his shoulder; Snobbcraft and Buggerie, their noses wrinkled and their foreheads corrugated, glanced suspiciously at each other. Both moved uneasily in their seats and looks of guilt succeeded those of accusation. Snobbcraft retreated precipitously to the rear cabin while the statistician flung open several windows and then followed the Vice-Presidential candidate.</p>
			<p>Fifteen minutes later two bundles were tossed out of the window of the rear cabin and the two passengers, looking sheepish but much relieved, resumed their seats. Snobbcraft was wearing a suit of brown dungarees belonging to Frazier while his scientific friend had wedged himself into a pair of white trousers usually worn by Snobbcraft’s valet. Frazier turned, saw them, and grinned.</p>
			<p>Hour after hour the plane winged its way through the night. Going a hundred miles an hour it passed town after town. About dawn, as they were passing over Meridian, Mississippi, the motor began to miss.</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter there?” Snobbcraft inquired nervously into the pilot’s ear.</p>
			<p>“The gas is runnin’ low,” Frazier replied grimly. “We’ll have to land pretty soon.”</p>
			<p>“No, no, not in Mississippi!” gasped Buggerie, growing purple with apprehension. “They’ll lynch us if they find out who we are.”</p>
			<p>“Well, we can’t stay up here much longer,” the pilot warned.</p>
			<p>Snobbcraft bit his lip and thought furiously. It was true they would be taking a chance by landing anywhere in the South, let alone in Mississippi, but what could they do? The motor was missing more frequently and Frazier had cut down their speed to save gasoline. They were just idling along. The pilot looked back at Snobbcraft inquiringly.</p>
			<p>“By God, we’re in a fix now,” said the president of the Anglo-Saxon Association. Then he brightened with a sudden idea. “We could hide in the rear cabin while Frazier gets gasoline,” he suggested.</p>
			<p>“Suppose somebody looks in the rear cabin?” queried Buggerie, dolefully, thrusting his hands into the pockets of his white trousers. “There’s bound to be a lot of curious people about when a big plane like this lands in a farming district.”</p>
			<p>As he spoke his left hand encountered something hard in the pocket. It felt like a box of salve. He withdrew it curiously. It was a box of shoe polish which the valet doubtless used on Snobbcraft’s footgear. He looked at it aimlessly and was about to thrust it back into the pocket when he had a brilliant idea.</p>
			<p>“Look here, Snobbcraft,” he cried excitedly, his rheumy eyes popping out of his head farther than usual. “This is just the thing.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?” asked his friend, eyeing the little tin box.</p>
			<p>“Well,” explained the scientist, “you know real niggers are scarce now and nobody would think of bothering a couple of them, even in Mississippi. They’d probably be a curiosity.”</p>
			<p>“What are you getting at, man?”</p>
			<p>“This: we can put this blacking on our head, face, neck and hands, and no one will take us for Snobbcraft and Buggerie. Frazier can tell anybody that inquires that we’re two darkies he’s taking out of the country, or something like that. Then, after we get our gas and start off again, we can wash the stuff off with gasoline. It’s our only chance, Arthur. If we go down like we are, they’ll kill us sure.”</p>
			<p>Snobbcraft pursed his lips and pondered the proposition for a moment. It was indeed, he saw, their only chance to effectively escape detection.</p>
			<p>“All right,” he agreed, “let’s hurry up. This ship Won’t stay up much longer.”</p>
			<p>Industriously they daubed each other’s head, neck, face, chest, hands and arms with the shoe polish. In five minutes they closely resembled a brace of mammy singers. Snobbcraft hurriedly instructed Frazier.</p>
			<p>The plane slowly circled to the ground. The region was slightly rolling and there was no good landing place. There could be no delay, however, so Frazier did his best. The big ship bumped over logs and through weeds, heading straight for a clump of trees. Quickly the pilot steered it to the left only to send it head first into a ditch. The plane turned completely over, one wing was entirely smashed and Frazier, caught in the wreckage under the engine, cried feebly for help for a few moments and then lay still.</p>
			<p>Shaken up and bruised, the two passengers, managed to crawl out of the cabin window to safety. Dolefully they stood in the Mississippi sunlight, surveying the wreckage and looking questioningly at each other.</p>
			<p>“Well,” whined <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Buggerie, rubbing one large sore buttock, “what now?”</p>
			<p>“Shut up,” growled Snobbcraft. “If it hadn’t been for you, we wouldn’t be here.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Happy Hill, Mississippi, was all aflutter. For some days it had been preparing for the great, open-air revival of the True Faith Christ Lovers’ Church. The faithful for miles around were expected to attend the services scheduled for the afternoon of Election Day and which all hoped would last well into the night.</p>
			<p>This section of the state had been untouched by the troubles through which the rest of the South had gone as a result of the activities of Black-No-More, Incorporated. The people for miles around were with very few exceptions old residents and thence known to be genuine blue-blooded Caucasians for as far back as any resident could remember which was at least fifty years. The people were proud of this fact. They were more proud, however, of the fact that Happy Hill was the home and birthplace of the True Faith Christ Lovers’ Church, which made the prodigious boast of being the most truly Fundamentalist of all the Christian sects in the United States. Other things of which the community might have boasted were its inordinately high illiteracy rate and its lynching record⁠—but these things were seldom mentioned, although no one was ashamed of them. Certain things are taken for granted everywhere.</p>
			<p>Long before the United States had rid themselves of their Negroes through the good but unsolicited offices of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Junius Crookman, Happy Hill had not only rid itself of what few Negroes had resided in its vicinity but of all itinerant blackamoors who lucklessly came through the place. Ever since the Civil War when the proud and courageous forefathers of the Caucasian inhabitants had vigorously resisted all efforts to draft them into the Confederate Army, there had been a sign nailed over the general store and post office reading, “NIGER REDE &amp; RUN. IF U CAN’T REDE, RUN ENEYHOWE.” The literate denizens of Happy Hill would sometimes stand off and spell out the words with the pride that usually accompanies erudition.</p>
			<p>The method by which Happy Hill discouraged blackamoors who sought the hospitality of the place, was simple: the offending Ethiopian was either hung or shot and then broiled. Across from the general store and post office was a large iron post about five feet high. On it all blacks were burned. Down one side of it was a long line of nicks made with hammer and chisel. Each nick stood for a Negro dispatched. This post was one of the landmarks of the community and was pointed out to visitors with pardonable civic pride by local boosters. Sage old fellows frequently remarked between expectorations of tobacco juice that the only Negro problem in Happy Hill was the difficulty of getting hold of a sufficient number of the Sons or Daughters of Ham to lighten the dullness of the place.</p>
			<p>Quite naturally the news that all Negroes had disappeared, not only from their state but from the entire country, had been received with sincere regret by the inhabitants of Happy Hill. They envisioned the passing of an old, established custom. Now there was nothing left to stimulate them but the old time religion and the clandestine sex orgies that invariably and immediately followed the great revival meetings.</p>
			<p>So the simple country folk had turned to religion with renewed ardor. There were several churches in the county, Methodist, Baptist, Campbellite and, of course, Holy Roller. The latter, indeed, had the largest membership. But the people, eager for something new, found all of the old churches too tame. They wanted a faith with more punch to it; a faith that would fittingly accompany the fierce corn liquor which all consumed, albeit they were all confirmed Prohibitionists.</p>
			<p>Whenever and wherever there is a social need, some agency arises to supply it. The needs of Happy Hill were no exception. One day, several weeks previously, there had come to the community one <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Alex McPhule who claimed to be the founder of a new faith, a true faith, that would save all from the machinations of the Evil One. The other churches, he averred, had failed. The other churches had grown soft and were flirting with atheism and Modernism which, according to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule, were the same thing. An angel of God had visited him one summer evening in Meridian, he told them, when he was down sick in bed as the result of his sinning ways, and had told him to reform and go forth into the world and preach the true faith of Christ’s love. He had promised to do so, of course, and then the angel had placed the palm of his right hand on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule’s forehead and all of the sickness and misery had departed.</p>
			<p>The residents of Happy Hill and vicinity listened with rapt attention and respect. The man was sincere, eloquent and obviously a Nordic. He was tall, thin, slightly knock-kneed, with a shock of unkempt red hair, wild blue eyes, hollow cheeks, lantern jaw and long ape-like arms that looked very impressive when he waved them up and down during a harangue. His story sounded logical to the country people and they flocked in droves to his first revival held in a picturesque natural amphitheater about a mile from town.</p>
			<p>No one had any difficulty in understanding the new faith. No music was allowed besides singing and thumping the bottom of a wooden tub. There were no chairs. Everybody sat on the ground in a circle with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule in the center. The holy man would begin an extemporaneous song and would soon have the faithful singing it after him and swinging from side to side in unison. Then he would break off abruptly and launch into an old fashion hellfire-and-damnation sermon in which demons, brimstone, adultery, rum, and other evils prominently figured. At the height of his remarks, he would roll his eyes heavenward, froth at the mouth, run around on all fours and embrace in turn each member of the congregation, especially the buxom ladies. This would be the signal for others to follow his example. The sisters and brothers osculated, embraced and rolled, shouting meanwhile: “Christ is Love!⁠ ⁠… Love Christ!⁠ ⁠… Oh, be happy in the arms of Jesus!⁠ ⁠… Oh, Jesus, my Sweetheart!⁠ ⁠… Heavenly Father!” Frequently these revivals took place on the darkest nights with the place of worship dimly illuminated by pine torches. As these torches always seemed to conveniently burn out about the time the embracing and rolling started, the new faith rapidly became popular.</p>
			<p>In a very short time nothing in Happy Hill was too good for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Alex McPhule. Every latch-string hung out for him. As usual with gentlemen of the cloth, he was especially popular with the ladies. When the men were at work in the fields, the Man of God would visit house after house and comfort the womenfolk with his Christian message. Being a bachelor, he made these professional calls with great frequency.</p>
			<p>The <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Alex McPhule also held private audiences with the sick, sinful and neurotic in his little cabin. There he had erected an altar covered with the white marble top from an old bureau. Around this altar were painted some grotesque figures, evidently the handiwork of the evangelist, while on the wall in back of the altar hung a large square of white oilcloth upon which was painted a huge eye. The sinner seeking surcease was commanded to gaze upon the eye while making confessions and requests. On the altar reposed a crudely-bound manuscript about three inches thick. This was the “Bible” of the Christ Lovers which the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule declared he had written at the command of Jesus Christ Himself. The majority of his visitors were middle-aged wives and adenoidal and neurotic young girls. None departed unsatisfied.</p>
			<p>With all the good fortune that had come to the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule as a result of engaging in the Lord’s work, he was still dissatisfied. He never passed a Baptist, Methodist or Holy Roller church without jealousy and ambition surging up within him. He wanted everybody in the county in his flock. He wanted to do God’s work so effectually that the other churches would be put out of business. He could only do this, he knew, with the aid of a message straight from Heaven. That alone would impress them.</p>
			<p>He began to talk in his meetings about a sign coming down from Heaven to convince all doubters and infidels like Methodists and Baptists. His flock was soon on the nervous edge of expectancy but the Lord failed, for some reason, to answer the prayer of his right-hand man.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule began to wonder what he had done to offend the Almighty. He prayed long and fervently in the quiet of his bedchamber, except when he didn’t have company, but no sign appeared. Possibly, thought the evangelist, some big demonstration might attract the attention of Jesus; something bigger than the revivals he had been staging. Then one day somebody brought him a copy of <i>The Warning</i> and upon reading it he got an idea. If the Lord would only send him a nigger for his congregation to lynch! That would, indeed, be marked evidence of the power of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Alex McPhule.</p>
			<p>He prayed with increased fervency but no African put in an appearance. Two nights later as he sat before his altar, his “Bible” clutched in his hands, a bat flew in the window. It rapidly circled the room and flew out again. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule could feel the wind from its wings. He stood erect with a wild look in his watery blue eyes and screamed, “A sign! A sign! Oh, Glory be! The Lord has answered my prayer! Oh, thank you, God! A sign! A sign!” Then he grew dizzy, his eyes dimmed and he fell twitching across the altar, unconscious.</p>
			<p>Next day he went around Happy Hill telling of his experience of the night before. An angel of the Lord, he told the gaping villagers, had flown through the window, alighted on his “Bible” and, kissing him on his forehead, had declared that the Lord would answer his prayer and send a sign. As proof of his tale, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule exhibited a red spot on his forehead which he had received when his head struck the marble altar top but which he claimed marked the place where the messenger of the Lord had kissed him.</p>
			<p>The simple folk of Happy Hill were, with few exceptions, convinced that the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule stood in well with the celestial authorities. Nervous and expectant they talked of nothing but The Sign. They were on edge for the great revival scheduled for Election Day at which time they fervently hoped the Lord would make good.</p>
			<p>At last the great day had arrived. From far and near came the good people of the countryside on horseback, in farm wagons and battered mud-caked flivvers. Many paused to cast their ballots for Givens and Snobbcraft, not having heard of the developments of the past twenty-four hours, but the bulk of the folk repaired immediately to the sacred grove where the preaching would take place.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> Alex McPhule gloated inwardly at the many concentric circles of upturned faces. They were eager, he saw, to drink in his words of wisdom and be elevated. He noted with satisfaction that there were many strange people in the congregation. It showed that his power was growing. He glanced up apprehensively at the blue heavens. Would The Sign come? Would the Lord answer his prayers? He muttered another prayer and then proceeded to business.</p>
			<p>He was an impressive figure today. He had draped himself in a long, white robe with a great red cross on the left breast and he looked not unlike one of the Prophets of old. He walked back and forth in the little circle surrounded by close-packed humanity, bending backward and forward, swinging his arms, shaking his head and rolling his eyes while he retold for the fiftieth time the story of the angel’s visit. The man was a natural actor and his voice had that sepulchral tone universally associated with Men of God, court criers and Independence Day orators. In the first row squatted the Happy Hill True Faith Choir of eight young women with grizzled old man Yawbrew, the tub-thumper, among them. They groaned, amened and Yes-Lorded at irregular intervals.</p>
			<p>Then, having concluded his story, the evangelist launched into song in a harsh, nasal voice:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<p>
					<span>I done come to Happy Hill to save you from Sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Salvation’s door is open and you’d better come in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, Glory Hallelujah! you’d better come in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jesus Christ has called me to save this white race,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with His Help I’ll save you from awful disgrace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, Glory Hallelujah! We must save this race.</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Old man Yawbrew beat on his tub while the sisters swayed and accompanied their pastor. The congregation joined in.</p>
			<p>Suddenly <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule stopped, glared at the rows of strained, upturned faces and extending his long arms to the sun, he shouted:</p>
			<p>“It’ll come I tell yuh. Yes Lord, the sign will come⁠—ugh. I know that my Lord liveth and the sign will come⁠—ugh. If⁠—ugh⁠—you just have faith⁠—ugh. Oh, Jesus⁠—ugh. Brothers and Sisters⁠—ugh. Just have faith⁠—ugh⁠—and the Lord⁠—ugh⁠—will answer your prayers.⁠ ⁠… Oh, Christ⁠—ugh. Oh, Little Jesus⁠—ugh.⁠ ⁠… Oh, God⁠—ugh⁠—answer our prayers.⁠ ⁠… Save us⁠—ugh. Send us the Sign.⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>The congregation shouted after him “Send us the Sign!” Then he again launched into a hymn composed on the spot:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:hymn">
				<p>
					<span>“He will send the Sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, He will send the Sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loving Little Jesus Christ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will send the Sign.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Over and over he sang the verse. The people joined him until the volume of sound was tremendous. Then with a piercing scream, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule fell on all fours and running among the people hugged one after the other, crying “Christ is Love!⁠ ⁠… He’ll send the Sign!⁠ ⁠… Oh, Jesus! send us The Sign!” The cries of the others mingled with his and there was a general kissing, embracing and rolling there in the green-walled grove under the midday sun.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>As the sun approached its zenith, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Arthur Snobbcraft and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Samuel Buggerie, grotesque in their nondescript clothing and their blackened skins, trudged along the dusty road in what they hoped was the direction of a town. For three hours, now, they had been on the way, skirting isolated farmhouses and cabins, hoping to get to a place where they could catch a train. They had fiddled aimlessly around the wrecked plane for two or three hours before getting up courage enough to take to the highroad. Suddenly they both thrilled with pleasure somewhat dampened by apprehension as they espied from a rise in the road, a considerable collection of houses.</p>
			<p>“There’s a town,” exclaimed Snobbcraft. “Now let’s get this damned stuff off our faces. There’s probably a telegraph office there.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t be crazy,” Buggerie pleaded. “If we take off this blacking we’re lost. The whole country has heard the news about us by this time, even in Mississippi. Let’s go right in as we are, pretending we’re niggers, and I’ll bet we’ll be treated all right. We won’t have to stay long. With our pictures all over the country, it would be suicidal to turn up here in one of these hotbeds of bigotry and ignorance.”</p>
			<p>“Well, maybe you’re right,” Snobbcraft grudgingly admitted. He was eager to get the shoe polish off his skin. Both men had perspired freely during their hike and the sweat had mixed with the blacking much to their discomfort.</p>
			<p>As they started toward the little settlement, they heard shouts and singing on their left.</p>
			<p>“What’s that?” cried <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Buggerie, stopping to listen.</p>
			<p>“Sounds like a camp meeting,” Snobbcraft replied. “Hope it is. We can be sure those folks will treat us right. One thing about these people down here they are real, sincere Christians.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think it will be wise to go where there’s any crowds,” warned the statistician. “You never can tell what a crowd will do.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, shut up, and come on!” Snobbcraft snapped. “I’ve listened to you long enough. If it hadn’t been for you we would never have had all of this trouble. Statistics! Bah!”</p>
			<p>They struck off over the fields toward the sound of the singing. Soon they reached the edge of the ravine and looked down on the assemblage. At about the same time, some of the people facing in that direction saw them and started yelling “The Sign! Look! Niggers! Praise God! The Sign! Lynch ’em!” Others joined in the cry. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule turned loose a buxom sister and stood wide-eyed and erect. His prayers had come true! “Lynch ’em!” he roared.</p>
			<p>“We’d better get out of here,” said Buggerie, quaking.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” agreed Snobbcraft, as the assemblage started to move toward them.</p>
			<p>Over fences, through bushes, across ditches sped the two men, puffing and wheezing at the unaccustomed exertion, while in hot pursuit came <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule followed by his enthusiastic flock.</p>
			<p>Slowly the mob gained on the two Virginia aristocrats. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Buggerie stumbled and sprawled on the ground. A dozen men and women fell upon him while he yelled to the speeding Snobbcraft for help. The angular Snobbcraft kept on but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule and several others soon overtook him.</p>
			<p>The two men were marched protesting to Happy Hill. The enthused villagers pinched them, pulled them, playfully punched and kicked them during their triumphant march. No one paid the slightest attention to their pleas. Too long had Happy Hill waited for a Negro to lynch. Could the good people hesitate now that the Lord had answered their prayers?</p>
			<p>Buggerie wept and Snobbcraft offered large sums of money for their freedom. The money was taken and distributed but the two men were not liberated. They insisted that they were not Negroes but they were only cudgeled for their pains.</p>
			<p>At last the gay procession arrived at the long-unused iron post in front of the general store and post office in Happy Hill. As soon as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Snobbcraft saw the post he guessed its significance. Something must be done quickly.</p>
			<p>“We’re not niggers,” he yelled to the mob. “Take off our clothes and look at us. See for yourself. My God! don’t lynch white men. We’re white the same as you are.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, gentlemen,” bleated <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Buggerie, “we’re really white men. We just came from a masquerade ball over at Meridian and our plane wrecked. You can’t do a thing like this. We’re white men, I tell you.”</p>
			<p>The crowd paused. Even <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule seemed convinced. Eager hands tore off the men’s garments and revealed their pale white skins underneath. Immediately apology took the place of hatred. The two men were taken over to the general store and permitted to wash off the shoe polish while the crowd, a little disappointed, stood around wondering what to do. They felt cheated. Somebody must be to blame for depriving them of their fun. They began to eye <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule. He glanced around nervously.</p>
			<p>Suddenly, in the midst of this growing tenseness, an ancient Ford drove up to the outskirts of the crowd and a young man jumped out waving a newspaper.</p>
			<p>“Looky here!” he yelled. “They’ve found out th’ damned Demmycratic candidates is niggers. See here: Givens and Snobbcraft. Them’s their pictures. They pulled out in airplanes last night or th’ mobs wouldda lynched ’em.” Men, women and children crowded around the newcomer while he read the account of the flight of the Democratic standard bearers. They gazed at each other bewildered and hurled imprecations upon the heads of the vanished candidates.</p>
			<p>Washed and refreshed, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Arthur Snobbcraft and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Samuel Buggerie, each puffing a five-cent cigar (the most expensive sold in the store) appeared again on the porch of the general store. They felt greatly relieved after their narrow escape.</p>
			<p>“I told you they wouldn’t know who we were,” said Snobbcraft disdainfully but softly.</p>
			<p>“Who are you folks, anyway?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule, suddenly at their elbow. He was holding the newspaper in his hand. The crowd was watching breathlessly.</p>
			<p>“Why-why-y I’m-a-er-a that is⁠ ⁠…” spluttered Snobbcraft.</p>
			<p>“Ain’t that your pichure?” thundered the evangelist, pointing to the likeness on the front page of the newspaper.</p>
			<p>“Why no,” Snobbcraft lied, “but⁠—but it looks like me, doesn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“You’re mighty right it does!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule, sternly, “and it <i>is</i> you, too!”</p>
			<p>“No, no, no, that’s not me,” cried the president of the Anglo-Saxon Association.</p>
			<p>“Yes it is,” roared McPhule, as the crowd closed in on the two hapless men. “It’s you and you’re a nigger, accordin’ to this here paper, an’ a newspaper wouldn’t lie.” Turning to his followers he commanded, “Take ’em. They’re niggers just as I thought. The Lord’s will be done. Idea of niggers runnin’ on th’ Demmycratic ticket!”</p>
			<p>The crowd came closer. Buggerie protested that he was really white but it was of no avail. The crowd had sufficient excuse for doing what they had wanted to do at first. They shook their fists in the two men’s faces, kicked them, tore off their nondescript garments, searched their pockets and found cards and papers proving their identity, and but for the calmness and presence of mind of the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule, the True Faith Christ Lovers would have torn the unfortunate men limb from limb. The evangelist restrained the more hot-headed individuals and insisted that the ceremonies proceed according to time-honored custom.</p>
			<p>So the impetuous yielded to wiser counsel. The two men, vociferously protesting, were stripped naked, held down by husky and willing farm hands and their ears and genitals cut off with jack knives amid the fiendish cries of men and women. When this crude surgery was completed, some wag sewed their ears to their backs and they were released and told to run. Eagerly, in spite of their pain, both men tried to avail themselves of the opportunity. Anything was better than this. Staggering forward through an opening made in the crowd, they attempted to run down the dusty road, blood streaming down their bodies. They had only gone a few feet when, at a signal from the militant evangelist, a half-dozen revolvers cracked and the two Virginians pitched forward into the dust amid the uproarious laughter of the congregation.</p>
			<p>The preliminaries ended, the two victims, not yet dead, were picked up, dragged to the stake and bound to it, back to back. Little boys and girls gaily gathered excelsior, scrap paper, twigs and small branches while their proud parents fetched logs, boxes, kerosene and the staves from a cider barrel. The fuel was piled up around the groaning men until only their heads were visible.</p>
			<p>When all was in readiness, the people fell back and the <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule, as master of ceremonies, ignited the pyre. As the flames shot upward, the dazed men, roused by the flames, strained vainly at the chains that held them. Buggerie found his voice and let out yelp after yelp as the flames licked at his fat flesh. The crowd whooped with glee and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule beamed with satisfaction. The flames rose higher and completely hid the victims from view. The fire crackled merrily and the intense heat drove the spectators back. The odor of cooking meat permeated the clear, country air and many a nostril was guiltily distended. The flames subsided to reveal a red-hot stake supporting two charred hulks.</p>
			<p>There were in the assemblage two or three whitened Negroes, who, remembering what their race had suffered in the past, would fain have gone to the assistance of the two men but fear for their own lives restrained them. Even so they were looked at rather sharply by some of the Christ Lovers because they did not appear to be enjoying the spectacle as thoroughly as the rest. Noticing these questioning glances, the whitened Negroes began to yell and prod the burning bodies with sticks and cast stones at them. This exhibition restored them to favor and banished any suspicion that they might not be one-hundred-per-cent Americans.</p>
			<p>When the roasting was over and the embers had cooled, the more adventurous members of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> McPhule’s flock rushed to the stake and groped in the two bodies for skeletal souvenirs such as forefingers, toes and teeth. Proudly their pastor looked on. This was the crowning of a life’s ambition. Tomorrow his name would be in every newspaper in the United States. God had indeed answered his prayers. He breathed again his thanks as he thrust his hand into his pocket and felt the soothing touch of the hundred-dollar bill he had extracted from Snobbcraft’s pocket. He was supremely happy.</p>
			<div>
				<header role="presentation">
					<p>And So On and So On</p>
				</header>
				<p>In the last days of the Goosie administration, the Surgeon-General of the United States, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Junius Crookman, published a monograph on the differences in skin pigmentation of the real whites and those he had made white by the Black-No-More process. In it he declared, to the consternation of many Americans, that in practically every instance the new Caucasians were from two to three shades lighter than the old Caucasians, and that approximately one-sixth of the population were in the first group. The old Caucasians had never been really white but rather were a pale pink shading down to a sand color and a red. Even when an old Caucasian contracted vitiligo, he pointed out, the skin became much lighter.</p>
				<p>To a society that had been taught to venerate whiteness for over three hundred years, this announcement was rather staggering. What was the world coming to, if the blacks were whiter than the whites? Many people in the upper class began to look askance at their very pale complexions. If it were true that extreme whiteness was evidence of the possession of Negro blood, of having once been a member of a pariah class, then surely it were well not to be so white!</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman’s amazing brochure started the entire country to examining shades of skin color again. Sunday magazine supplements carried long articles on the subject from the pens of hack writers who knew nothing whatever of pigmentation. Pale people who did not have blue eyes began to be whispered about. The comic weeklies devoted special numbers to the question that was on everyone’s lips. Senator Bosh of Mississippi, about to run again for office, referred several times to it in the Congressional Record, his remarks interspersed with “Applauses.” A popular song, “Whiter Than White” was being whistled by the entire nation. Among the working classes, in the next few months, there grew up a certain prejudice against all fellow workers who were exceedingly pale.</p>
				<p>The new Caucasians began to grow self-conscious and resent the curious gazes bestowed upon their lily-white countenances in all public places. They wrote indignant letters to the newspapers about the insults and discriminations to which they were increasingly becoming subjected. They protested vehemently against the effort on the part of employers to pay them less and on the part of the management of public institutions to segregate them. A delegation that waited upon President Goosie firmly denounced the social trend and called upon the government to do something about it. The Down-With-White-Prejudice-League was founded by one Karl von Beerde, whom some accused of being the same Doctor Beard who had, as a Negro, once headed the National Social Equality League. Offices were established in the Times Square district of New York and the mails were soon laden with releases attempting to prove that those of exceedingly pale skin were just as good as anybody else and should not, therefore, be oppressed. A <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Cutten Prodd wrote a book proving that all enduring gifts to society came from those races whose skin color was not exceedingly pale, pointing out that the Norwegians and other Nordic peoples had been in savagery when Egypt and Crete were at the height of their development. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Prof.</abbr> Handen Moutthe, the eminent anthropologist (who was well known for his popular work on <i>The Sex Life of Left-Handed Morons among the Ainus</i>) announced that as a result of his long research among the palest citizens, he was convinced they were mentally inferior and that their children should be segregated from the others in school. Professor Moutthe’s findings were considered authoritative because he had spent three entire weeks of hard work assembling his data. Four state legislatures immediately began to consider bills calling for separate schools for pale children.</p>
				<p>Those of the upper class began to look around for ways to get darker. It became the fashion for them to spend hours at the seashore basking naked in the sunshine and then to dash back, heavily bronzed, to their homes, and, preening themselves in their dusky skins, lord it over their paler, and thus less fortunate, associates. Beauty shops began to sell face powders named <i>Poudre Nègre</i>, <i>Poudre le Egyptienne</i> and <i>L’Afrique</i>.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Sari Blandine (formerly <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mme.</abbr> Sisseretta Blandish of Harlem), who had been working on a steam table in a Broadway Automat, saw her opportunity and began to study skin stains. She stayed away from work one week to read up on the subject at the Public Library and came back to find a recent arrival from Czecho-Slovakia holding down her job.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blandine, however, was not downhearted. She had the information and in three or four weeks time she had a skin stain that would impart a long-wearing light-brown tinge to the pigment. It worked successfully on her young daughter; so successfully, in fact, that the damsel received a proposal of marriage from a young millionaire within a month after applying it.</p>
				<p>Free applications were given to all of the young women of the neighborhood. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blandine’s stain became most popular and her fame grew in her locality. She opened a shop in her front room and soon had it crowded from morning till night. The concoction was patented as Blandine’s Egyptienne Stain.</p>
				<p>By the time President-Elect Hornbill was inaugurated, her Egyptienne Stain Shoppes dotted the country and she had won three suits for infringement of patent. Everybody that was anybody had a stained skin. A girl without one was avoided by the young men; a young man without one was at a decided disadvantage, economically and socially. A white face became startlingly rare. America was definitely, enthusiastically mulatto-minded.</p>
				<p>Imitations of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Blandine’s invention sprang up like weeds in a cemetery. In two years there were fifteen companies manufacturing different kinds of stains and artificial tans. At last, even the Zulu Tan became the vogue among the smart set and it was a common thing to see a sweet young miss stop before a show window and dab her face with charcoal. Enterprising resort keepers in Florida and California, intent on attracting the <i>haute monde</i>, hired naturally black bathing girls from Africa until the white women protested against the practice on the ground that it was a menace to family life.</p>
				<p>One Sunday morning Surgeon-General Crookman, in looking over the rotogravure section of his favorite newspaper, saw a photograph of a happy crowd of Americans arrayed in the latest abbreviated bathing suits on the sands at Cannes. In the group he recognized Hank Johnson, Chuck Foster, Bunny Brown and his real Negro wife, former Imperial Grand Wizard and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Givens and Matthew and Helen Fisher. All of them, he noticed, were quite as dusky as little Matthew Crookman Fisher who played in a sandpile at their feet.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Crookman smiled wearily and passed the section to his wife.</p>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
